Let's talk about what it means to
build a classification model and
how building a model differs
from applying a model.
After this video,
you will be able to discuss what
building a classification model means.
Explain the difference between
building and applying a model.
And summarize why the parameters
of a model needs to be adjusted.
A machine learning model
is a mathematical model.
In the general sense, this means that
the model has parameters and uses
equations to determine the relationship
between its inputs and outputs.
The parameters are used by the model to
modify the inputs to generate the outputs.
The model adjusts its parameters
in order to correct or
refine this input, output relationship.
Here's an example of a simple model.
This mathematical model represents a line.
y is the output, x is the input,
m determines the slope of the line and
b determines the y-intercept or
where the line crosses the y-axis.
m and b are the model's parameters.
Given a specific value for
x, the model uses as parameters
along with x to determine y.
By adjusting the values for
the parameters m and b,
the model can adjust how the input
x matched to the output y.
Here we see how the output y changes for
the same value of input x,
when parameter b changes.
Recall that b is the y-intercept, or
where the line crosses the y-axis.
The value of b is +1 for
the red line and -1 for the blue line.
For the input x=1, the value of y is 3 for
the red line,
as indicated by the red arrow.
For the blue line, when the parameter
b changes from +1 to -1,
for x=1, the value of y is 1,
as indicated by the blue arrow.
So we see that with just a simple
change in one model parameter,
the input to output mapping changes.
A machine learning model
works in a similar way.
It maps input values to output values.
And it adjusts the parameters
in order to correct or
refine this input-output mapping.
The parameters of a machine
learning model are adjusted or
estimated from the data
using a learning algorithm.
This, in essence,
is what is involved in building a model.
This process is referred to by many terms,
such as model building,
model creation,
model training and model fitting.
In building a model,
we want to adjust the parameters in
order to reduce the model's error.
In the case of supervised tasks,
such as classification, this means getting
the model's outputs to match the targets
or desired outputs as much as possible.
Since the classification task is
to predict the correct category or
class, given the input variables,
you can think of the classification
problem visually as carving out the input
space as regions corresponding
to the different class labels.
In this diagram for example,
the classification model needs to form
the boundaries to define the regions
separating red triangles
from blue diamonds, from green circles,
from yellow squares.
In this example, if a sample falls within
the region in the upper right corner,
it will be classified as a blue diamond.
Classification decisions are based on
these regions, and the regions are defined
by the boundaries, as indicated by
the dashed lines in the diagram.
So these boundaries are referred
to as decision boundaries.
Building a classification then means using
the data to adjust the model's parameters
in order to form decision boundaries
to separate the target classes.
Note that the term classifier is often
used to mean classification model.
In general,
building a classification model,
as well as other machine learning models,
involves two phases.
The first is the training phase,
in which the model is constructed and
its parameters adjusted using as
what referred to as training data.
Training data is the data set
used to train or create a model.
The second is the testing phase.
This is where the learned
model is applied to new data.
That is,
data not used in training the model.
Here's another way to
look at the two phases.
In a training phase, the learning
algorithm uses the training data
to adjust the model's
parameters to minimize errors.
At the end of the training phase,
you get the trained model.
In the testing phase,
the trained model is applied to test data.
Test data is separate from training data
and is previously unseen by the model.
The model is then evaluated on
how it performs on the test data.
The goal in building a classifier
model is to have the model
perform well on training,
as well as test data.
We will discuss in more detail
the use of training and
test data sets in the next module,
when we discuss model evaluation.
To adjust a model's parameters,
we need to apply a learning algorithm.
We will discuss the specific algorithms
to build a classification model in
the next few lectures.